# How To Setup a Docker Container

### 1. Create a `Dockerfile` in `src/docker/dev/Dockerfile`.

```Dockerfile
# Use the official Node.js image as our base
FROM node:20

# Set the working directory inside the container
WORKDIR /usr/src/app

# Copy package.json and package.lock.json to leverage Docker cache
COPY package*.json ./

# Install app dependencies
RUN npm install

# Copy the rest of our app's source code into the container
COPY . .

# Expose the port the app will run on
EXPOSE 5555

# The command to run our app
CMD ["npm", "run", "dev"]

```

### 2. Create a `.dockerignore` file.

```
node_modules
npm-debug.log
.env

```

### 3. Building the Docker image

-   Navigate to the directory containing your `Dockerfile` and run.

```bash
docker build -t auth-service:dev -f docker/dev/Dockerfile .
```

-   This command will produce a Docker image named `auth-service` with the tag `dev`.

The `docker build` command you're using is for building a `Docker image`.

Command Breakdown:

#### 1. `docker build`:

-   This command initiates the process of building a Docker image.

#### 2. `-t auth-service:dev`:

-   The `-t` option tags the image with a name (auth-service) and a tag (dev). This tag is useful for identifying different versions or environments of your image, such as dev for development.

#### 3. `-f docker/dev/Dockerfile`:

-   The `-f` option specifies the path to the Dockerfile you want to use. In this case, it's located at docker/dev/Dockerfile. The Dockerfile contains instructions on how to build the image.

#### 4. `. (dot)`:

-   The `dot` at the end of the command specifies the build context, which is the directory where Docker will look for files needed to build the image. The . represents the current directory. Docker will send the contents of this directory (and subdirectories) to the Docker daemon to be used during the build process.

### 4. Running the Express App in a Docker Container

-   Once the image is built, you can run it.

```bash

docker run --rm -it --name auth-service-container -v "$(pwd):/usr/src/app" -v "/usr/src/app/node_modules" --env-file "$(pwd)/.env" -p 5555:5555 -e NODE_ENV=development auth-service:dev
```

The `docker run` command you're using creates and runs a `Docker container` with several options. Here's a breakdown of what each part does:

Command Breakdown:

#### 1. `--rm`:

-   Automatically removes the container when it exits. This keeps your environment clean by not leaving stopped containers behind.

#### 2. `-it`:

-   `i` stands for interactive, and `-t` allocates a pseudo-TTY. Together, these options allow you to interact with the container via the terminal.

#### 3. `-v $(pwd):/usr/src/app`:

-   Mounts the current directory `$(pwd)` to `/usr/src/app` inside the container. This means that any changes made to the files in your current directory will be reflected in the container, and vice versa.

#### 4. `-v /usr/src/app/node_modules`:

-   This is likely intended to prevent the container from overwriting the node_modules directory on your host machine.

#### 5. `--env-file $(pwd)/.env`:

-   Specifies an environment file to pass environment variables into the container. The file .env located in the current directory `$(pwd)` will be used.

#### 6. `-p 5555:5555`:

-   Maps port 5555 on your local machine to port 5555 on the container. This allows you to access services running in the container on this port from your host machine.

#### 7. `-e NODE_ENV=development`:

Sets the `NODE_ENV` environment variable inside the container to development. This is typically used to switch between different configurations or behaviors based on the environment.

#### 8. `auth-prep:dev`:

The name and tag of the Docker image you want to run (auth-prep with the dev tag). If this image doesn't exist locally, Docker will try to pull it from a Docker registry.
